# 12.2 Possessive Pronouns (наш and ваш in Nominative)

**Source:** https://opentext.ku.edu/dobraforma/chapter/12-2/
**License:** Creative Commons (CC BY-NC)
**Attribution:** University of Kansas Ukrainian Language Program

---

# 
			12.2 Possessive Pronouns (наш and ваш in Nominative)		

										
		

In this module, you will become familiar with the possessive pronouns “our” and “your” (plural and formal singular), which have different forms depending on gender and number.

## Завда́ння 1

Caption the images below, paying attention to the different forms of the pronoun “our” in each sentence.  Then answer the questions that follow.

## Завда́ння 2

The two sisters and their friend Danylo from the activity above are talking at school. Fill in the blanks with the correct forms of the pronoun “our” to complete their conversation. Then answer the questions that follow.

## Завда́ння 3

Solomiya and Marta have invited Danylo to their home and are showing him around. Complete the dialogue below using the pronouns from the word bank. Note how similar the forms for “our” and plural “your” are. Then answer the questions that follow.

## Завда́ння 4

Listen to the statements that Marta, Solomiya and Danylo heard from their waitress while having lunch at a cafe. Choose the most appropriate noun to complete each statement.

Transcript – Завдання 4

- Ось Ваш&#8230;

- Ось Ваша&#8230;

- Ось ваші&#8230;

- Прошу Ваше&#8230;

- Ось Ваш&#8230;

- Прошу ваші&#8230;

## Цікаво!

Note how the waitress in the listening activity above uses the pronoun **ваш** and its other forms when speaking to the customers, even when addressing only one of them (for ex., when saying “**Ось Ваш сала́т**.”). This usage is like the use of formal **Ви**, and it is appropriate in situations when speaking to someone you don’t know, to superiors, or to senior individuals. Just as with **Ви**, the plural “your” and the formal singular “your” are distinguished in writing through capitalization of the latter. For example:

- *(In a **postcard** from Danylo to Solomiya and Marta):* Приві́т! Як ва́ші спра́ви?

- *(**In a letter from Danylo to his teacher**):* Щи́ро Ваш – Дани́ло

## Завда́ння 5

Fill in the blanks with the correct forms of the pronoun** ваш** from the word bank.  Pay careful attention to context when making your choice.

## Мо́вний пазл

Look through the activities you have just completed and choose the correct statements below to summarize what you have learned.

## А тепе́р тест!

Complete the dialogues below using the possessive pronouns from the bank.

Images courtesy of Oleksandra Wallo.